# Mr Goh Soon Seng

Mr Goh is a retired software developer who is passionate about imparting his knowledge to youths and adults. Driven by the observation of the shortage and lack of maker and tinkering coding education in mainstream schools (the percentage of K-12 students who reads a structured course of study in computer science and programming is typically about or less than 5%, or non-existent in most schools in Singapore) and the general population, he reached out to Singapore's National Library Board (NLB) to initiate an outreach program in NLB's MakeIt makerspace facilities to the public library users. The program is a free five-week [introductory Python programming with Raspberry Pi course](https://learning.nlb.gov.sg/communities/join/digital-communities), with ad-hoc sessions held afterwards, targeting children as young as 9 years old and retirees as senior as 70+ aged, conducted weekly in English at MakeIT @ Tampines Regional Library. With the assistance of 3 regular volunteers, and sometimes her daughter supporting some sessions, he has successfully conducted 7 runs of the program to date (as at Feb 2023) since Sep 2021. He also adapted the course to a group of high school teachers to share how physical computing activities can be infused into their school enrichment programs, so that beginning programming learners can be meaningfully engaged with authentic tasks integrating both hardware and software.

Besides initiating the Pi with Python introductory course, Mr Goh also started a [Pi Makers Club](https://github.com/ssgoh/The-Pi-Club) with NLB that meets on the first Sunday of each month in 2022, where members undertake more advanced projects using the Raspberry Pi. Starting 2023 the club has been exploring using the Raspberry Pi Pico, a microcontroller that runs MicroPython. He continuously seeks to not only initiate programs that welcome newcomers, but also thinks about longer term developmental plans to retain and sustain members' interest.

All programme information and learning resources are [shared with the community and open sourced](https://github.com/ssgoh).

Mr Goh has also shared about his motivation and experience at [PyCon SG 2019 education summit](https://pycon.sg/edu-summit) (lightning talk: Making Python our Digital Mother Tongue) and [PyCon SG 2022 education summit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LkvsHHpfFIc&t=9508s) (talk: Pi and Python). His engagement talks have further inspired other educators to initiate similar ventures with the community libraries near their schools.

As a community which values diversity and inclusivity, the Python ecosystem is enriched with selfless contributors like Mr Goh who continues to care about and proactively reaches out to the more vulnerable segments of the society, even in his golden years.

I thus propose that Mr Soon Seng Goh be recognized as a PSF Fellow as he is deservingly a role model in his generation and beyond to inspire and encourage more Pythonistas from underrepresented groups, especially seniors who can still continue to lead purposeful lives by rediscovering the joy of learning and digital making with Python programming, an increasingly important core digital literacy life skill in today's technology permeated world.
